WebDriver is a tool which only interact with browser .

Selenium is a set of tool. it is used for mainly to test web based applications. 
it will not support window/desktop based application.
Features of selenium :
Its a open source tool. support also is free , although it is community based.
mainly used to test functional and regression test cases of web based applications and formed mobile application.
Selenium has its own script language "Selense".

Dis-Advantages
we cannot test window based/Desktop Application.

we cannot test CUI(Command User Interface) Application.
it is not containing object repository like QTP/UFT.
it is needs third party tool to become fully functional like Java...

why we are using selenium ?
Not Only for it is open source app. it is very optable to test online enterprise's application like facebook , google kind of web interface application.

Selenium Versions OverView:
Selenium version1

it is a combination of 
Selenium IDE , Seleniumm RC & Grid
we are not in the necessary to use all the selenium tools together in a single project.
As per the application/prject requirement we can choose the selenium tools among SeleniumIDE,Selenium Rc, Selenium webDriver, Grid.


1.Selenium IDE(Integrated Development Environment)
a.it is a firefox plugins.
b. it contains inbuilt selense commands to write/enhance test cases and allows you to record , edit , play back and debug tests.
c. Save tests as HTML, Ruby Scripts , or any other format.

Draw Back of Selenium IDE

a.we can use selenium IDE only for small/Simple Applications testing.
we cannot handle/write test cases to test major/complicated functionalities.
b.it doesn't have object repository like UFT and also doesn't support data driven , keyword driven , pom frameworks.
c.it doesn't support any programming languages such as java, Python.
d.it supports only Firefox Browser.

2.Selenium RC(Selenium Remote Control)
 Now a days it is used for only maintenance projects Bcoz of selenium webdriver features overcomes the selenium RC Features.

3.Selnium Grid

it is used to test Cross Browser testing , parrel Testing and Group Testing generate HTML Test Report using TestNG Frameworks.

Selenium version2
it is a combination of Selenium IDE , Selnium RC, Selenium WebDriver, Selenium Grid.

Selenium WebDriver

it uses Selense and WebDriver Commands and also object/element
locators to write test cases/ enhance test cases.

features :
a. it is used to write Test cases , enhance Test cases using various programming languages such as java , python#, Perl , Ruby , Php...
By having this features of selenium webdriver we can handle major projects/functionalities.
b.it also used various browsers to execute test cases such as firefox , chrome , IE, Safari , opera....
selenium IDE doesn't support any other IE , chrome accept Firefox.
c.it supports various operating systems like windows , unix , linux, Macintosh..
d.it supports Data Driven , Keyword Driven , POM.

DrawBack of Slenium WebDriver
it doesn't create detailed test report.
it doen't have object repository like UFT.
we cannot test window , cui based application.

Selenium version3.x

Selenium released 2 beta versions of selenium 3.0(Beta 1 & 2 till 3rd Aug, 2016) with few of the below changes:

Reference link:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/master/java/CHANGELOG
Beta 1 updates
Minimum java version is now 8+
Supports for Firefox is via Mozilla's Gecko driver (will discuss later while using Selenium Webdriver)

Major Difference between SeleniumIDE and Selenium WebDriver :

WebDriver is typically used to create browser-based regression tests whereas selenium IDE is most advantageous in creating uit tests,
exploratory tests and quick bug reproduction scripts .

Environment Setup for Selenium 
Installing Selenium IDE & FireBug 
steps:
1.launch firefox(bcoz selenium IDE is a firefox plugin) and navigate to http://seleniumhq.org/download/under the selenium IDE section.


Why Test Case Fails
1.Application Down
2.Server is Not responding
3.Network Issue
4.Scripting Issue
5.Application Issue


